# S3 (Simple Storage)
Provides secure, durable, high scalable object storage. 
## Features
- Object based storage, with data spread actoss multiple devices and facilities. 
- File size between 0 bytes and 5 TB. 
- Unlimites storage available. 
- Files stored in buckets (folder in cloud with a universal namespace, which must be unique). 
- URL format: https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/bucket-name
- If upload successfull, 200 response is given. 
## Data Consistency Model
- Read after write consistency for PUT operations of new objects, meaning new objects are immediatly available. 
- Eventually consistent for overwrite PUT and DELETE operations, meaning the changes can take time to propagate.
## S3 Objects
- Key: name of the object. 
- Value: this is the data made up of bytes. 
- Version ID.
- Meta-data. 
- Sub-resources: 
    - Access Control Lists.
    - Torrent.
## S3 Basics 
- Built for 99.99% availability. 
- Amazon guarantee 99.9% availability. 
- Amazon guarantee 99.9x11% durability for S3 information. 
- Lifecycle management of storage types (Tiered storage).
- Versioning available with version control. 
- Encryption available. 
- Secure data through Access Control Lists and bucket policies. 
## S3 Storage Tiers 
- S3 Standard: 99.99% availability, 99.9x11% durability. Data stored redundantly across multiple devices and facilities. Designed to sustain the loss of 2 facilities concurrently. 
- S3-IA (Infrequently Accessed): data accessed less frequently, but requires rapid access when needed. Lower tier than S3-Standard, but charged a retreival fee. 
- S3 One Zone - IA: for inrequently accessed data, but do not require multiple availability zone data resilience. 
- Glacier: very cheap, used for archival only. Storage modes of; expedidted, standard or bulk. Standard retrieval takes 3 - 5 hours. 
## S3 Charges 
- Storage.
- Requests. 
- Storage Management Pricing (charged for meta-data held). 
- Data Transfer Pricing.
- Transfer Accelleration: enables file transfers over long distances to be improved by taking advantage of edge locations and CloudFront. 
## Notes on Creating S3 Buckets 
- Objects within buckets don't inherit tags applied to the bucket. 
- Encryption: 
    - Client side.
    - Server side: Amazon S3 Managed Keys, KMS and Customer Provided Keys). 
- Control access using Access Control Lists or Bucket Policies. 
- By default all buckets are private and all objects within them are private. 
## Notes on Versioning 
- Once versioning is enabled it cannot be turned off, only suspended. 
- If versioning is on, files are only marked as deleted they are not actually deleted and can therefore be restored. 
- Integrates with lifecycle tools. 
- Has the option of multi-factor authentication for DELETE and versioning rule change operations. 
## Notes on Cross Region Replication
- Replicate either entire bucket or a folder within it. 
- Both buckets must have versioning enabled. 
- Only new items/versions in the bucket are replicated, not existing items. 
- You can change storage tier of the destination bucket, meaning you can use it as a cheap backup. 
- When you delete something the marker is replicated, however if you delete the marker this is not replicated. 
- If you revert to a previous version, this is not replicated in the destination bucket. 
- Delete individual versions/deletion markers are not replicated. 
- You cannot daisy chain replication. 
- Replication regions must be unique (cannot replicate to the same region). 
## Notes on Lifecycle Management with S3-IA and Glacier
- Lifecycle rules enable objects after a set amount of time to be transfered to S3-IA and then Glacier if required. 
- Can use filter/tags to target specific files with the lifecycle rule. 
- Can be used in conjunction with versioning and can be applied to current and previous versions of files. 
- Actions that can be performed with lifecycle management: 
    - Transition to S3-IA (30 days is default lifecycle time for a file).
    - Transition to Glacier (60 days is default lifecycle time for a file). 
    - Permanently delete the file. 